### Computers in the Workforce
Computers are commonly used to automate away repetitive and low-skilled tasks, which though good for a business owner, as it can reduce costs significantly, is far more dangerous for the everyday worker, as it poses a risk to their job security if computers can do their job for much cheaper. However, as many in-person services are being replaced by web-apps and other software, it also precludes those without easy access to the internet or a computer from accessing what might be vital services.
### Analysing Personal Information
As computers are able to run many billions of instructions per second, and even in parallel, it has become feasible to analyse all the actions taken by a person on the internet, which allows for tracking and targeted advertisements. As this is largely an undertaking of large companies, they are under no obligation to share their findings on the analysis of these large datasets.
### Environmental Effects
To accomplish many of the highly compute-intensive tasks done every day, many datacentres are used. This results in heightened energy draws for these facilities, which now draw a substantial portion of the world's generated electricity to not only perform the calculations, but also to cool themselves.
Further, many consumer devices are not designed to be repairable or otherwise to be recycled, and thus, they are often just thrown away, which leads to significant numbers of computer parts containing toxic chemicals being thrown away, which can in some circumstances cause pollution of the ground water supply.
### Layout and Character Sets
For those with disabilities, such as visual or auditory impairment, using a computer may be challenging, and as such designers should strive to ensure that these effects can be mitigated. This can be done by ensuring images have alt-text or audio having written transcripts.
Another consideration to take into account is the character set used. As much of the internet is English-speaking, some may choose to only provide English as a language option. However, where possible support for other languages should be prioritised, which can be greater facilitated by use of Unicode and UTF-8 over other methods such as ASCII.
### Censorship
Censorship on the internet is a highly common thing. In fact, many ISPs block websites that conform to a certain set of rules, such as blocking sites associated with piracy or terrorism. On a smaller scale, many businesses or homes may choose to censor content to achieve a desired goal, such as increasing worker productivity. However, there is the large concern that this may be used for ill-intent, preventing people from accessing perfectly legitimate information.
### Automated Decision-Making
Automated decision making by AIs is now common in every-day life on the internet. Though this has allowed for the masses of content and information available to be filtered and sorted before it reaches the human, to tailor to their needs, it also has the tendency to create so called 'echo-chambers'. This is where the computer continuously recommends similar content or information, which may shape the viewpoints of a person. Thus, it is plain to see how this could be manipulated to influence people without their knowledge or consent.
On a similar note, whenever a computer program has to cone into contact with the 'real-world' so to speak, it usually has to make some kind of decision as to what to do with the methods it holds. Whether this is by AI or otherwise by some sort of algorithm, the reasoning behind these often impactful decisions can often be opaque and relying on the moral judgement of a single person.
### Monitoring Behaviour
Much of a person's everyday life is onw monitored, a process only made easier with the advent of computers. This monitoring has allowed entities to track people not only in real life, but also on the internet, where despite someone's bets efforts to remain anonymous, they may still be personally identifiable.